dbt platform profiles (#8476)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/cloud/about-profiles.md

---
title: About dbt platform profiles
id: about-profiles
description: "About dbt platform profile configuration."
sidebar_label: "About profiles"
pagination_next: null
pagination_prev: null
---

> <Constant name="dbt_platform" /> profiles define the connections, credentials, and attributes you use to connect to a data warehouse. You assign profiles to [deployment environments](/docs/dbt-cloud-environments#deployment-environment). Profiles make it easy for you to set up and update the connection and credentials used for a deployment environment at the project level.

Reviewer: >  Profiles make it easy for you to set up and update the connection and credentials used for a deployment environment at the project level.

Is another benefit that they persist across deployment environments too? Like when you set up a new environment, you choose the profile?

Author: Yeah, that's what we're saying with "at the project-level." Do you think that needs to be clearer?

Reviewer: I think it would help some people to "get it"

> <Constant name="dbt_platform" /> profiles define the connections, credentials, and attributes you use to connect to a data warehouse. You assign profiles to [deployment environments](/docs/dbt-cloud-environments#deployment-environment). Profiles make it easy for you to set up and update the connection and credentials used for a deployment environment at the project level.

Author: ```suggestion
<Constant name="dbt_platform" /> profiles define the connections, credentials, and attributes you use to connect to a data warehouse. You assign profiles to [deployment environments](/docs/dbt-cloud-environments#deployment-environment) and can reuse those profiles in other deployment environments within the same project.
```

> Profiles don't apply to development environments.

Author: ```suggestion
Because of the unique configurations and individual credentials applied, profiles don't apply to development environments.
```

> Profiles don't apply to development environments.

Reviewer: Is there a reason why? Is it because dev env use individual creds?

Author: Yeah, different set of credentials.

- Update the connection and credentials used for a deployment environment.

> - Configure multiple connections for an environment to support cross-platform [dbt Mesh](/docs/mesh/about-mesh) (coming soon). 

Reviewer 2: I'm thinking we should remove this for now, since the cross-platform Mesh implementation has been in flux, and may end up not even needing the functionality introduced by profiles. We could replace it with a single sentence that says: "Profiles make it easy for you to set up and update the connection and credentials used for a deployment environment at the project level."

:::important new feature rollout

> dbt will automatically create a new project-level profile for each deployment environment and populate it with your existing connection, credentials, and extended attributes. You don't need to take any action to create profiles for your existing projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dbt automatically creates a new project-level profile for each deployment environment and populates it with your existing connection, credentials, and extended attributes. You don't need to take any action to create profiles for your existing projects.
```

:::

> You can create profiles from either the project or the environment settings. No matter which approach you take, dbt creates the profile at the project level. Profiles you create in one project won't be visible in others. 

Reviewer: Wonder if we should connect these two thoughts. Maybe "available" instead of "visible?"

```suggestion
You can create profiles from either the project or the environment settings. No matter which approach you take, dbt creates the profile at the project level, which means profiles you create in one project won't be available in other projects. 
```

Author: I originally wrote "available" but my fear is that readers may misconstrue that to mean that the components of it are also project specifc, which they are not. The connections and such that make up the profile are available across projects, but that specific profile name won't show up, they'd have to recreate it

Reviewer: AH got it. Maybe visible is better then. It was definitely a nit and not a huge deal.

:::

> You can create profiles from either the project or the environment settings. Profiles you create in one project won't be visible in others. 

Reviewer 2: Maybe add another line that clarifies even if created from environment settings, the profile is created for the project and will show up in project settings. "Profiles created in environment settings are still created at the project level."

> You can create profiles from either the project or the environment settings. Profiles you create in one project won't be visible in others. 

Author: ```suggestion
You can create profiles from either the project or the environment settings. No matter which approach you take, the profile is created at the project level. Profiles you create in one project won't be visible in others. 
```

<TabItem value="From project settings" >

1. From the main menu, navigate to your project's **Dashboard**.
2. Click **Settings**.

> 3. Scroll down to the **Profiles** pane and click **Create new profile**.

Reviewer: The style guide says to avoid "pane" and use section instead. Just editing a few of these.
```suggestion
3. Scroll down to the **Profiles** section and click **Create new profile**.
```

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/profile-from-project.png" width="60%" title="Creating a profile from project settings." />

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="From environment settings" >

1. From the main menu, click **Orchestration** and select **Environments**.
2. Click an available deployment environment.
3. Click **Settings**, then click **Edit**.

> 4. Navigate to the **Connection profiles** pane, click the three-dot menu next to an existing profile, and select **Change profile**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Navigate to the **Connection profiles** section, click the three-dot menu next to an existing profile, and select **Change profile**.
```

5. Click the **Profile** dropdown and select **Create new profile**.

> <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/profile-from-environment.png" width="60%" title="Creating a profile from the environment settings." />

Reviewer: This image shows "General" selected. Is General a development env?

Author: Yes, General, Staging, and Production are deployment environments. They have to select the `Deployment` type to see them

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

The following steps are the same regardless of which approach you take:

> 1. Give the profile a name that's unique across the account, easy to identify, and adheres to the naming policy:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Give the profile a name that's unique across all projects in the account, easy to identify, and adheres to the naming policy:
```

The following steps are the same regardless of which approach you take:

> 1. Give the profile a unique name that's easy to identify and adheres to the naming policy:

Reviewer 2: The name also most be unique across the account. I think that's mentioned above, but maybe worth calling out that it needs to be unique across the account

> 1. Give the profile a unique name that's easy to identify and adheres to the naming policy:

Author: ```suggestion
1. Give the profile a name that's unique across the account, easy to identify, and adheres to the naming policy:
```

    - Starts with a letter
    - Ends with a letter or number
    - Contains only letters, numbers, dashes, or underscores
    - Has no consecutive dashes or underscores
2. From **Connection details**, select a connection from the list of available [global connections](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/about-connections#connection-management) or add a new connection. 
3. Configure the **Deployment credentials** for your warehouse connection.
4. Add any [**Extended attributes**](/docs/dbt-cloud-environments#extended-attributes) you need.
5. Click **Save** at the top of the screen. 

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/profile-sample.png" width="60%" title="Sample of a configured profile." />

Repeat these steps until you've created all the profiles you need for your project's deployment environments. 

## Assign a profile

> dbt automatically creates and assigns a default profile for all projects. To assign a different profile, update the deployment environment settings:

Reviewer 2: this is only true if they have existing credentials set up for deployment environments. If they're setting up a new  deployment environment, they'll need to create/assign a profile as part of the set up. 

"For all existing deployment environments, dbt automatically creates a profile and assigns it to the deployment environment. To assign a different profile, update the deployment environment settings:"

> dbt automatically creates and assigns a default profile for all projects. To assign a different profile, update the deployment environment settings:

Author: ```suggestion
Profiles are configured when a deployment environment is created. For accounts that already have environments configured when profiles are enabled, dbt automatically creates and assigns a default profile to all projects. 

To assign a different profile, update the deployment environment settings:
```

2. Click an available deployment environment.
3. Click **Settings**, then click **Edit**.

> 4. Navigate to the **Connection profiles** pane, click the three-dot menu next to an existing profile, and select **Change profile**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Navigate to the **Connection profiles** section, click the three-dot menu next to an existing profile, and select **Change profile**.
```

3. Click **Settings**, then click **Edit**.
4. Navigate to the **Connection profiles** pane, click the three-dot menu next to an existing profile, and select **Change profile**.
5. Click the **Profile** dropdown and select the new profile to assign.

## FAQs

<DetailsToggle alt_header="Do I need to create profiles for all of my existing projects?">

You don't need to take any action. dbt automatically creates profiles for all existing projects and deployment environments based on the existing connection, credentials, and extended attributes.

</DetailsToggle>

<DetailsToggle alt_header="Are there any changes to development environments?">

Not at this time. Profiles only apply to deployment environments.

</DetailsToggle>

<DetailsToggle alt_header="What happens if I change my connection details, credentials, or attributes?">

Any profiles using those settings automatically update with the new information.

</DetailsToggle>

<DetailsToggle alt_header="What if I use APIs to configure project settings?">

> Existing APIs continue to work and automatically map to a profile behind the scenes. You won't need to take any manual action unless you use APIs to create a deployment environment with no credentials configured. This is a rare occurrence unique to APIs, but it's the only scenario where dbt wouldn't create a profile.

Reviewer 2: We should add that there are new APIs available to use profiles and link to the API docs (link coming soon)
